Document how to claim a cluster for a job (#123)
openshift/ci-docs: content/en/docs/architecture/ci-operator.md

OpenShift cluster installed. Existing releases have clearer stability expectations because you control what  kind
of release will be used: from the latest CI candidate to stable versions already released to customers.

> Alternatively, a job can [claim a cluster](#testing-with-a-cluster-from-a-cluster-pool) from a cluster pool. A cluster pool maintains a number of pre-installed clusters that are ready to be used by jobs, i.e., the job can start testing with the cluster without waiting the whole process of provisioning a cluster. Those clusters are with a public available version and they are not customized with the changes from a pull request which triggers the job. A job should not claim a cluster if it is for an OCP component. The targeting users of cluster claim are the jobs for testing “something on OpenShift”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, a job can [claim a cluster](#testing-with-a-cluster-from-a-cluster-pool) from a cluster pool. A cluster pool maintains a number of pre-installed clusters that are ready to be used by jobs, i.e., the job can start testing with the cluster without waiting the whole process of provisioning a cluster. Those clusters are with a public available version and they are not customized with the changes from a pull request which triggers the job. A job should not claim a cluster if it is for an OCP component. The targeting users of cluster claim are the jobs for testing “something on OpenShift”.
```

Author: What are you suggesting? I cannot see the difference?

Reviewer: Huh. I wonder how that happened.

Reviewer: fixed it

Author: Updated.

        upper: "4.5.0-0"
{{< / highlight >}}

> ### Testing With a Cluster from a Cluster Pool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Testing with a Cluster from a Cluster Pool
```

> Instead of using `releases` stanza in the configuration, a job can *claim* a cluster from a cluster pool and use it for testing _"something on OpenShift"_.

Reviewer: We should also describe what's the difference: instead of installing a cluster from scratch on-demand (takes time but allows clsuter customization and is necessary when you test OCP) you can claim a pre-installed one (faster, but you can only use this whne you need sufficiently "generic" cluster, and you cannot test OCP  components with tthis)

Reviewer: There is also the "Should I Use an Ephemeral or Published Release?" section, which should be extended with infromation about claimed clusters.

Reviewer 2: Document how to do this, not how to *not* do it - don't talk about other features like `releases` unless you _must_.

```yaml
- as: e2e
  cluster_claim:
    cloud: aws
    product: ocp
    owner: dpp
    version: "4.7"
    timeout: 1h
  container:
    from: cli
  commands: |
    printenv KUBECONFIG
    printenv KUBEADMIN_PASSWORD_FILE
    oc whoami
    oc config view

>     oc get node

Reviewer: Let's primarily use an example with `steps` (and not `container`). Most of the cluster-interacting tests are multi-stage and we want it that way. If people just blindly copy-paste contanerized tests we get increased support burden when they want to use custom secrets, parameters, dependencies etc.

```

> The `cluster_claim` above claims an `ocp` cluster with `4.7` version on `aws`. The owner of the `aws` account with which the cluster is installed is `dpp`. If the claimed cluster is running in `1h`, the environment variable `${KUBECONFIG}` stores the path to the `admin`'s `kubeconfig` file that can be used to contacting the cluster. The `kubeadmin`'s password is stored in `${KUBEADMIN_PASSWORD_FILE}`.

Reviewer: If I am a user, how do I know what "owner" should I set? How do I know? The document should advise. Same with `timeout`: why should I set it myself and why should I care?

Author: Updated.

        upper: "4.5.0-0"
{{< / highlight >}}

### Testing with a Cluster from a Cluster Pool

> The `cluster_claim` below claims an `ocp` cluster with `4.7` version on `aws`. The owner of the `aws` account with which the cluster is installed is `dpp`. If the claimed cluster is running in `1h`, the environment variable `${KUBECONFIG}` stores the path to the `admin`'s `kubeconfig` file that can be used to contacting the cluster. The `kubeadmin`'s password is stored in `${KUBEADMIN_PASSWORD_FILE}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `cluster_claim` below claims an OCP 4.7 cluster in AWS from a pool owned by `dpp`. If the cluster is successfuly claimed from the pool, `ci-operator` executes the specified multi-stage test and provides it the credentials to access the cluster via two environmental variables:

 -  `${KUBECONFIG}`: Path to `system:admin` credentials.
 -  `${KUBEADMIN_PASSWORD_FILE}`: Path to the kubeadmin password file.
```

Reviewer: Note: https://docs.ci.openshift.org/docs/architecture/step-registry/#available-environment-variables should also be restructured to take claimed clusters into account, but let's do it in a followup.

Author: https://docs.ci.openshift.org/docs/architecture/step-registry/#available-environment-variables  is still valid.
"the ephemeral OpenShift cluster" can be a claimed cluster as well, no?

Reviewer: It's not entirely valid, because some variables are not available in steps running on claimed clusters.

Author: ```console
url=https://gcsweb-ci.apps.ci.l2s4.p1.openshiftapps.com/gcs/origin-ci-test/pr-logs/pull/openshift_release/18007/rehearse-18007-pull-ci-openshift-ci-ns-ttl-controller-master-e2e/1387458618059657216/artifacts/build-resources/pods.json

$ curl -s $url | jq -r '.items[]|select(.metadata.name=="e2e-claim").spec.containers[0].env[]|.name'
BUILD_ID
CI
JOB_NAME
JOB_SPEC
JOB_TYPE
OPENSHIFT_CI
PROW_JOB_ID
PULL_BASE_REF
PULL_BASE_SHA
PULL_NUMBER
PULL_PULL_SHA
PULL_REFS
REPO_NAME
REPO_OWNER
ENTRYPOINT_OPTIONS
ARTIFACT_DIR
NAMESPACE
JOB_NAME_SAFE
JOB_NAME_HASH
KUBECONFIG
KUBEADMIN_PASSWORD_FILE
SHARED_DIR
```

I think this is the only one: `IMAGE_FORMAT ` (cross check with https://docs.ci.openshift.org/docs/architecture/step-registry/#available-environment-variables), right?

Reviewer: Oh, I see what you mean - some of them are basically ruled out by the "When is it present".

```yaml
- as: e2e
  cluster_claim:
    architecture: amd64
    cloud: aws
    owner: dpp
    product: ocp
    timeout: 1h0m0s
    version: "4.7"
  steps:
    test:
    - as: claim
      commands: |
        printenv KUBECONFIG
        printenv KUBEADMIN_PASSWORD_FILE
        oc whoami
        oc config view
        oc get node
      from: cli
      resources:
        requests:
          cpu: 100m
          memory: 200Mi
```

> The job fails if there are no cluster pools providing such a cluster, or the time `1h` runs out waiting for the cluster to be ready. From our experience with `aws`, it takes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The claim will be fulfilled immediately if a cluster is available in the cluster pool. If there is no cluster available at the moment, `ci-operator` will wait until new one is provisioned, up to the time limit specified in the `timeout` field. If no cluster is made available until the timeout, the `ci-operator` execution will fail. From our experience with clusters in AWS-backed cluster pools, the jobs can expect the following:
```

Author: Updated.

- almost no time to claim a running cluster in the pool;
- 3 - 6 minutes to wake up a [hibernating](https://github.com/openshift/hive/blob/master/docs/hibernating-clusters.md) cluster. A cluster is hibernating after it has not been claimed for sometime after beining provisioned;
- 40 to 60 minutes to create a new cluster if all the pre-installed clusters in the pool are taken by other jobs.

> It is supported to [create a cluster pool with a cloud account provided by a CI user](/docs/how-tos/cluster-claim/). In that case, set `owner` as defined as the label of the pool. Choose `dpp` as `owner` if the team or the product that you work for does not have a dedicated pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The system is designed to allow teams to set up custom cluster pools backed by cloud platform accounts they own, and then use these pools to provide clusters to their jobs. See the [Creating a Cluster Pool](/docs/how-tos/cluster-claim/) document for more details. By default, OpenShift CI provides the following pools backed by DPP-owned accounts:

TABLE WITH EXACT POOLS AVAILABLE, OR A COMMAND TO USE TO FIGURE OUT AVAILABLE POOLS
```

Author: Updated.

> Note that `cluster_claim` and `cluster_profile` are mutually exclusive because [the later](/docs/architecture/step-registry/#implicit-lease-configuration-with-cluster_profile) indicates installing a cluster on demand, instead of claiming a pre-installed cluster in a pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that `cluster_claim` and `cluster_profile` are mutually exclusive because [the latter](/docs/architecture/step-registry/#implicit-lease-configuration-with-cluster_profile) indicates installing a cluster on demand, instead of claiming a pre-installed cluster in a pool.
```

Author: Updated.
